<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Installation of Amanita Library=
Here follows instructions on how to compile and install on different platforms.

It is not required, but there are optional libraries that you may wish to install. Libamanita will compile without them. These are GtkSourceView and Scintilla.

==Linux==
===autotools===
To download, compile and install, open a terminal and run the following sequence of commands:
{{{
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential \
   libsdl1.2-dev \
   libsdl-ttf2.0-dev \
   libsdl-image1.2-dev \
   libsqlite3-dev

cd ~/Desktop
svn checkout http://libamanita.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ libamanita
cd libamanita

cmake .
make
sudo make install

cd ..
rm -r libamanita
}}}

===Cross Compile on Linux with MinGW for Windows===
It builds well with no need for modifications in the code, simply setup the cross-compile environment and run ./configure && make, with proper flags. In a terminal setup like so:
{{{
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential \
   mingw32 \
   mingw32-binutils \
   mingw32-runtime
}}}
Now look in your /usr map (terminal: "ls -la /usr"), there should be a map called "i586-mingw32msvc" or similar. This map consists of the cross compile environment with MinGW binaries, DLLs, libraries and headers. Place all cross compile libraries in this map, look at MSYS below for where to find dependencies, and you can also look here for other dependencies:
 http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/binaries/win32/

Run cmake (adjust for your version of MinGW-cross-compile environment in the file mingw32.cmake):
{{{
cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=mingw32.cmake .
make
sudo make install
}}}

==Windows==
===MSYS===
For *windows* users, it's the same principles, there are two alternatives. Either, if you install MinGW and MSYS, you can use the autotools and then you will have to install the dependencies manually, or download [http://devpaks.org/ DevPaks], unzip and place in the MinGW-folder. You can find everything you need here:
 http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files

 http://www.libsdl.org/download-1.2.php

 http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_net

 http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_ttf

 http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image

 http://www.sqlite.org/download.html
Run configure with MinGW-prefix, like so (adjust for where your MinGW is installed):
{{{
./configure --prefix=C:/MinGW
}}}

===Dev-C++===
The other alternative, that is slightly more simple, is to use the available Devpaks for the libraries SDL-1.2, SDL_net, SDL_ttf, SDL_image and sqlite3 that you can find here:
 http://devpaks.org/

You can use Devpaks with any MinGW distribution, including Dev-C++, Code::Blocks etc. You may find and download Dev-C++ here:
 http://www.bloodshed.net/dev/

==Mac OSX==
Not tested to build on mac yet.

==Dependencies==
  * libsdl1.2-dev
  * libsdl-ttf2.0-dev
  * libsdl-image1.2-dev
  * libsqlite3-dev